Dominique Pozo: Work. I am so grateful and
Dominique Pozo: Can you hear me.
Martin Price: Yeah, can you
Dominique Pozo: Hear you
Oh,
Dominique Pozo: Oh, now I can sorry my volume was turned all the way down.
Okay.
Martin Price: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Can you hear me.
Martin Price: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, good. I can now. Yeah, my, my volume was way down. So
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: Having a big backup in a
Dominique Pozo: In the virtual clinic.
Martin Price: Yeah, I think there's some new people in their training them and you know it's kind of like on the job training and
Okay.
Martin Price: It's just taken a little bit longer than usual.
Hmm.
Dominique Pozo: Ok well how's it going
Martin Price: Pretty well i i think we talked like last Thursday or something and
Martin Price: You know, had a really good ski day on Saturday, and that
Martin Price: A guy that
Martin Price: Will take me down this
Martin Price: Kind of the shoots in the mountains. I've been looking for a long time trying to find somebody to do that with, you know, I was we were talking about trying to make male friends and everything and
Yeah.
Martin Price: I have one good friend named George he's gay. And sometimes it's a little awkward, but
Martin Price: Like we go to the dog park every day and take the dogs out and everything and
Martin Price: He like takes care of my house when I'm back in Wisconsin and all that. Uh huh.
Martin Price: But I was thinking about it and it's just I realize it's
Martin Price: Hard for me to, I mean, so should the code things that with the stuff I like to do like bike riding or
Martin Price: Skiing or climbing and stuff like that. It's
Martin Price: I guess I need to check for clubs or something like that, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm.
Martin Price: ride bikes Saturday mornings, or something like that.
Martin Price: Because again, that into I'm not really into like football or, you know, watching football, stuff like that.
Dominique Pozo: Right, so just finding like minded.
Dominique Pozo: Friends.
Martin Price: They're there. It's just like you can meet him by happenstance just
Martin Price: You know, because you start talking to him up on the hill and stuff like that.
Martin Price: I almost went over to the shoots, but I just, I didn't. It's kind of dangerous. You're supposed to do it with somebody else around
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Martin Price: So that was good and
Martin Price: I'm you know i'm still
Martin Price: Trying to intervene on my negative thoughts, kind of like
Martin Price: I guess more gently and not just like
Martin Price: dive straight into a prayer or something like that, because the prayers are
Martin Price: You know,
Martin Price: They really weren't working. So it seems like it's more about
Martin Price: Just entertaining intervene Jeff playing catch yourself, you know,
Martin Price: But yeah
Martin Price: Yeah, this morning I was kind of going through it again and
Martin Price: It slowly went away.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh. So what do you find, like what is like, can you talk me through what you do when there's negative start thoughts start coming up. What does it look like internally in your mind, like, what, what do you, what do you do with that.
Martin Price: Well, you know, I'm definitely aware of it and
Martin Price: I try and like get into work or trying to
Martin Price: Think of other things, or stay busy, you know,
Dominique Pozo: So you're kind of distracting. That's one.
That's one. Yeah.
Martin Price: I know they say that that's like not going to solve it. But I don't know what else to do. You know, it's only thing that works.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I, it is a coping mechanism, it's not the only one. And I wouldn't recommend distracting all the time, or these things get put in the shadows and they'll come out sideways.
Dominique Pozo: Some other time yet it is a coping skill, I, I just, okay, is that the only thing you're doing right now distraction.
Martin Price: Or just go about my day, you know, and just kind of like
Martin Price: Try and get into just doing little things for myself, like, you know, I made a really good steak dinner last night that was. It was really delicious. You know, and I really got into it.
Martin Price: But
Martin Price: The days can kind of drag on, you know, and
Martin Price: I don't know what really helps me is being around people.
Martin Price: Uh huh.
Mm hmm.
Martin Price: I don't really have anybody. I can just call like until my name is really bad place because I mean George's heard it from me so many times. I'm sure he's like
You know,
Martin Price: He just
Martin Price: I don't know.
Martin Price: I don't know how to deal with it, I guess.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I think, I think it would be useful to keep practicing and kind of flexing the muscle of turning towards
Dominique Pozo: Rather than away from it you know that's there's different there's different ways to deal and sometimes turning away is helpful. So you can function for sure yet. I think what I
Dominique Pozo: am curious to see is how if you do start turning towards it, how it might transform and that's some of like the empty chair work that we've done where, say, the voice starts to come up
Dominique Pozo: Then you say, oh, okay, here you are again. Okay. Here you are. I'm gonna hook you i'm going to not, I'm not going to put you in a box. And I'm not going to push you away.
Dominique Pozo: Or turn away. I'm going to hook you and I'm going to sit with you and I'm going to be with you. It's like
Dominique Pozo: It's like a little kid who's crying you know there's a lot of things you could do. You could shut him in a room and walk away.
Dominique Pozo: You could, you know, just walk away and say, you know, you need to deal with yourself. I'm busy. Or you can turn towards the child and be like, Okay, let's sit down and talk to me. Tell me what's going on, you know,
Martin Price: Um,
Martin Price: Yeah, it's just I told you about it last time. It's just this real grim kinda
Martin Price: You know, like you just like
Martin Price: It every stupid thing imaginable, and
Martin Price: And you know I all I really want to do is just like
Martin Price: Work and try and
Martin Price: Dig myself out of this hole.
Martin Price: And you know the
Martin Price: Then it's like, well, it's never going to get any better if you keep taking this buprenorphine and
Martin Price: And then I'm like, what am I going to hold on to my job, you know, if I have to, like, take two, two weeks or a month off and it's like the only thing you can do is taper and I'm somewhat successful tapering but you know
Martin Price: Get down, and then it'll creep back up and then
Martin Price: You know, the general trend is down, but I just didn't realize it was going to take this long, you know,
Martin Price: You can't just stop taking it over the course of a week and yeah yeah
Dominique Pozo: Well, I think we've definitely be done a an open dialogue with your with this part, you know, there's been we've identified okay it's connected to your dad. You know, there's a voice of your father in there from long ago and
Dominique Pozo: As far as I've witnessed this part, you know, wants to look out for you and make sure you don't get yourself in a familiar situation that's not fulfilling or generative for you.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: I'm wondering, I'm wondering, what do you, what do you think
Dominique Pozo: Are you afraid if you really engage with this negative voice are you afraid of something, they're like, What are you afraid of
Martin Price: Like just kind of falling into the abyss. You know, I'm losing
Martin Price: My motivation. You know, like just giving up.
I mean,
Martin Price: I'm literally doing everything I can only thing I'm doing wrong right now is taking the beep an orphan. I mean, everything else. I'm doing, you know, to the best of my ability, and trying to
Martin Price: You know, rebuild my foundation, so to speak, and
Dominique Pozo: You know,
Dominique Pozo: I'm just going to reflect when I hear you say the only thing you're doing wrong is the people morphine and this must be a really
Dominique Pozo: This must be like, it must feel like a big split and yourself like, you know, doing something every day and telling yourself it's wrong.
Martin Price: Yeah, yeah. I haven't been able to
Martin Price: Just accepted.
Martin Price: It, you know, I woke up this morning and I was in pain and hobbling around and then I was like, well, you do this to yourself because you exercise too hard or you go ski and stuff like that and
Martin Price: If you didn't do that, then you wouldn't be in pain, and you wouldn't have this phony justification to take it, you know.
Martin Price: I don't know that that is a lifestyle. I really like to live. But, um,
Martin Price: Yeah, you're right, it is, it just creates a split
Dominique Pozo: And I, I'm hearing again like party wants to go enjoy life and and do what you love and then it keeps you bound to taking the Suboxone at this point or the people north, excuse me, and
Dominique Pozo: I mean I'm just wondering how does it feel to hear this statement at the moment. Just, just let it in and see what what happens for you when I say this, you know, for now.
Dominique Pozo: You do need to take the buprenorphine to do the things that bring you joy and those things that bring you joy are really important for your well being.
Dominique Pozo: So until you're tapered off completely. This is a part of being able to engage, because if you don't take it you probably get really sick.
Martin Price: What happened last time was a
Martin Price: Lot of anxiety for sleeplessness, but then I got. And this was like a couple months later I just started getting really fatigued and
Martin Price: Sick. Basically, it was a lot of congestion and I don't know if it was like the time a year, or what but
Martin Price: I was just like a rack and that was like two months later, you know, two or three months later and
Martin Price: So it's like I'm kind of scared.
Martin Price: Mm hmm. You know, like, Well, what's going to happen this time and
Martin Price: I mean one thing they offer is like a
Martin Price: The Treatment Center offers a taper while you're there, which might, which is the only thing I haven't really tried you know
Martin Price: It's like so hard getting down like from four to three milligrams. It's like, oh my god, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Well, what kind of support.
Dominique Pozo: Do you believe you need to actually do that. And do you think you could do it through the kind of program you're in now. Do you think you need to go into a treatment center for that.
Martin Price: If I want to get it over with.
Martin Price: You know, if not then it just seems like it's gonna like
Martin Price: I'd like to go back to Wisconsin and be back and be down to say three or 2.5 or even to, you know,
Dominique Pozo: What, what do you imagine that they offer there that will help you do that.
Martin Price: Well, no, I
Martin Price: In Wisconsin or
Dominique Pozo: Another treatment.
Dominique Pozo: To get you
To help you tapers
Martin Price: Because you're in kind of a lockdown. You know, you can't get anymore. And they'll give you
Martin Price: The amount
Martin Price: You know the right amount to taper with
Martin Price: Over like the course of a week or something or 10 days.
Dominique Pozo: Would you be willing to talk to one of the doctors about this because that sounds awfully fast to me and I'm not a doctor. So I, I don't. This isn't my scope of practice to even really comment on
Martin Price: Although I can do about it.
Dominique Pozo: I would, because for me. I get some red flags like okay that sounds very quick, from what I've witnessed in the last four years of working with bright heart health, and what concerns me is that by dropping so quickly, is it really sustainable, you know, is it going to really not.
Martin Price: Touch it. I was thinking to. It's like, are you just going to go right back to it or
Martin Price: Or will it say help you get down to say one or two a day, you know,
Martin Price: That was kind of my whole
Martin Price: I don't know, or the taper that I'm doing. I just have to like give myself more credit. I mean, I've cut back
Martin Price: Substantially and it's like
Martin Price: It's not easy.
Dominique Pozo: I imagine. And I, I'm wondering if you
Dominique Pozo: You know, if it makes sense to maybe draw it out longer than a week to get down to, you know, to go from
Dominique Pozo: Whatever however you want.
Martin Price: To whatever
Dominique Pozo: So 3.6 to, to, to, you know, come up with a really solid plan and I'm happy to be a part of that with Dr. Kendall and you have you know what
Dominique Pozo: What physiologically she really believes would be helpful for you and enduring and then
Dominique Pozo: Psychologically, you know what, we can come up with, you know, maybe you attend to group meetings. A week or maybe we do to individual and one group or or something and or there's more support in the community. Maybe join a men circle.
Dominique Pozo: You know, something that you're getting a lot of because that's in the end. That is what helps with the tapering is having the support
Martin Price: Yeah, and being around people for me like being alone in my household is pretty much. That's like the worst.
Martin Price: I have. I've always, you know, I just much rather be at work, you know,
Martin Price: Because I just noticed when I'm around people. It's like, I forget about you know
Martin Price: The voice kind of disappears. And I just, you know, it helps me engage my mind.
Martin Price: In in something else in my own thoughts.
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. And this is how you know you're you're longing to taper while being in this pandemic hearing that you, you know, being around people really helps you, you know, it sounds like you're maybe more of an extrovert. So this time of being alone in isolation really amplifies and is maybe
Dominique Pozo: Adjective agitating this tapering process.
Martin Price: Yeah, I think that's true. It's, um,
Martin Price: Yeah, you know, I'm hoping I can go back that they'll let us back around the end of the month.
Martin Price: And
Martin Price: I could go back and find the meet this April, girl.
Dominique Pozo: How's that going just to switch gears for a moment.
Martin Price: Lots of text back and forth about our days and stuff like that. She's just been really nice.
Martin Price: You know, just like she wants to hang out. She we both kind of have a problem, children, I guess you'd say she's got a son who's like 23 that
Martin Price: lives with her and, you know, they tend to find a lot and I share my problems with my daughter, who has schizophrenia and
Martin Price: So we connect there and she's also really into hiking in the outdoors and all that kind of stuff. So
Dominique Pozo: That's great.
Martin Price: What I'd really like to do is go sailing on Lake Michigan because she lives in Milwaukee.
Martin Price: Which is wrong.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, that sounds really fun. Well, maybe.
Martin Price: That can be
Dominique Pozo: Your first date.
Martin Price: Oh, yeah. And you know, it's like something to look forward to. Whereas here, I'm just like,
Martin Price: You know,
Martin Price: It's just me and myself, you know, trying to
Martin Price: motivate myself through the day. I mean, I know I have to work and that
Martin Price: That's my biggest fear is that, you know, lose my job.
Martin Price: So as the guy said spirits now fear is not a spiritual value.
Dominique Pozo: So that
Martin Price: My counselor. He's got all kinds of stuff like that to say
Dominique Pozo: What do you think about that. What, what do you think about that phrase.
I'm
Martin Price: I'm in a lot of fear and I think I kind of use the buprenorphine to cope
Martin Price: Because it does settle me down, that's for sure. I'll try and read as long as I can in the morning like till nine or 10 you know before I take it and
Martin Price: It just kind of
Martin Price: Helps me settle down.
Dominique Pozo: So what I'm thinking is we need to work on more coping skills.
Dominique Pozo: We need to work on more ways that you can self soothe yourself.
Dominique Pozo: To self sooth, so that
Dominique Pozo: You can start to let go of the people morphine and kind of loosen the grip of because it sounds like it's a bit of a crutch right now.
Martin Price: Oh sure, yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, so
Dominique Pozo: What do you think in the next week because it's we're on Monday. So we've got a whole week to, you know, to, you can practice this throughout the week. What, what skills do you have that you maybe you're not using
Martin Price: Meditating and
Martin Price: But I'm not really following through on that.
Martin Price: I've been doing one exercise I you know I do get out at least once a day and go to the dog park with George
Martin Price: Like there's online na meetings.
Martin Price: But you know, I personally just don't think they're very accepting of the whole medically assisted treatment idea, you know, at least not the ones
Martin Price: You know what, I wonder that I think we talked about this, I'm wonder if there's some online.
Martin Price: Because I went to some of the podcast websites that you were talking about.
Martin Price: It.
Martin Price: I was thinking of something more recovery oriented like what I mean, just a few that I listened to. They were just talking kind of about current topics and stuff like that.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You want something more related to recovery. I got it. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I'm gonna I'm gonna I'll find out there's, I know there's one patient on the in the Wednesday group that
Dominique Pozo: She has a great website and I can't remember Cy podcast site. I can't remember off the top of my head what it's called but I'll ask her. They'll send her an email after this, and then I'll email it to you.
Martin Price: Okay, I know, Kimmy had some too but
Martin Price: She's a singer and a while.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Thank you for reminding me. I'm going to take make a little note here kami moved to Vermont. Gosh.
Martin Price: She moved her
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, she's not in the group anymore. Unfortunately,
Dominique Pozo: But that's great because I need to send her an email and then I can ask her about, you know, any resources that
Martin Price: She's mentioning group.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
All right.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: Okay so meditating and more support but support that you feel comfortable and safe to share what you're doing to
Martin Price: Yeah. So I mean, to me, like maybe I could look up you know Suboxone recovery groups online or something.
Dominique Pozo: That's good. Are you making a list of things.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, great.
Martin Price: Um, you know, similar to our groups, but
Martin Price: You know, maybe a group of people who are like
Martin Price: Trying to taper to and that are
Martin Price: Sharing ways that they get it.
Dominique Pozo: I think that's great. I think especially because you keep naming that you're you know you you really long for more connection and you're getting
Dominique Pozo: Being able to get that connection and be able to talk openly about your process. And I think one, it may normalize what you're going through a little more and to inspire you, you know, inspire you, like, okay, these people
Martin Price: You know, somebody else did it.
Martin Price: knows it.
Martin Price: Yeah yeah
Martin Price: Because I don't. I mean, I don't really in our groups. They're just talking about their days and stuff like that. It's not as much about
Martin Price: I know there's a person or two. I think it was Internet was trying to taper.
Martin Price: And that's, yeah, that's what I'd like to get around.
Martin Price: We it's funny. We've talked about like having an NA group here in Santa Fe that
Martin Price: Like call it the medically assisted treatment group or something.
Yeah.
Martin Price: ever really
Martin Price: This is just here. It's not that progressive of a fellowship, you know, isn't a lot of tolerance towards
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm.
You know,
Martin Price: So there's that. And then you're saying like report recovery podcast.
Dominique Pozo: Yep.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, you know, it was a good one. Russell Brand he
Martin Price: Has one called under the skin.
Dominique Pozo: And his, his. Do you know Russell Brand
Martin Price: Or whatever.
Dominique Pozo: Dude. Yeah, yeah.
Dominique Pozo: He was actually he was a perfect yeah he's hilarious and he's kind of brilliant. He was hardcore heroin addict for a long time.
Dominique Pozo: And then he sobered himself up and he's, he's a brilliant man he's really astute and he's kind of can be a little kind of crass and and maybe raunchy sometimes, but he's he's I think he's another great resource.
Dominique Pozo: For good idea and you know he has with his podcast under the skin. I think he has Collins and people can ask him questions.
Dominique Pozo: I would really check him out, because maybe you know maybe you have a question that you can put out to him and he might give you a really, you know, intelligent and informed answer because he's been through it, you know.
Martin Price: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Martin Price: Under the Skin
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And I think he's spells skin sky, and I think
Dominique Pozo: So, okay, those are a few things. And what do you think, what would a reasonable doable goal be for the next week that you can really meet or or maybe three goals from from what you've written down. What are three steps and actions you can take this week to do something different.
Martin Price: Well, definitely. I like him so
Martin Price: I'm writing. Okay.
Martin Price: Mean, I've got group tomorrow night, and then
Martin Price: That personality test Lee.
Dominique Pozo: Oh. Uh huh.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Martin Price: That's good. I'm keeping
Dominique Pozo: You've got some activities.
Dominique Pozo: Well, you mentioned meditation. What could you realistically commit to if you're not, are you, are you taking the time to do that. Or it's just more of a concept of what you maybe want to, or should do.
Martin Price: I was trying to do it right when I woke up like I'd wake up early, like at five or 530 and I was trying to
Martin Price: Like meditate them, but I kept falling back asleep and and then the alarm to go off and it was time to go, you know, to get up.
Martin Price: So,
Martin Price: I don't know when a good time. I mean, they say one of the best times to do it is to start your day, you know,
Yeah.
Martin Price: You know, I kind of do repetitive pairs. When I go to bed, but
Martin Price: I don't know if they're having much of an effect or not.
Dominique Pozo: Well, it doesn't sound like it's harming you so it could be something to keep
Yeah.
Martin Price: I mean, I could also see my counselor, the spiritual counselor guy.
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm. Yeah. That's support for you.
Martin Price: Or trying to stick it out. One thing I could do is like
Martin Price: Do a zoom
Martin Price: In a meeting only with the group back in Janesville
Martin Price: Instead, because that's going back to anyway.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Dominique Pozo: I think what you're doing is great, you know, getting some concrete.
Dominique Pozo: Direction, and then you can choose, you can choose what directions. You want to go in, but just, you know, not being so open ended around, you know, like, why aren't things changing or what's in my way. It's like, no, you're actually going to take some action here some some ways.
Martin Price: That always feels good.
Yeah.
Martin Price: Okay, so it was the Russell Brand brand.
Martin Price: Group meeting tomorrow night. Start day with meditation. See, Phil, the spiritual counselor in Janesville in a meeting in a
Martin Price: Good.
Dominique Pozo: Good, yeah, that's, I don't, I don't want to encourage overwhelm either where you're like, oh, there's so much to do. I'm not going to do any of it.
Yeah.
Martin Price: I
Martin Price: One thing that's not happening is that I'm not
Martin Price: It's weird. I'm not really worrying about work that's for sure obsess about that. I just am able to like detach from that but easily
Dominique Pozo: But that's great that's
One less stress.
Martin Price: Yeah, yeah. There's a lot going on there.
Martin Price: And I have been exercising.
Dominique Pozo: That sounds good. That sounds good to everything else seems pretty heady so it sounds nice to balance it out with somebody you know some movement and just getting into your body a little more
Martin Price: Yeah, I just kind of have to keep it.
Martin Price: Kind of brief, you know, so that I could get back to work or so like today, I did a write a bike ride up to just a few miles and then
Martin Price: Like ran a mile or a mile and a half tonight.
Martin Price: So that's always it helps me go to sleep.
Dominique Pozo: Great. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Good on so many levels.
Martin Price: So,
Dominique Pozo: Go ahead.
Martin Price: Well, none of the bright heart meetings are like
Martin Price: Are they oriented towards tapering they have any
Martin Price: meetings that are oriented towards tapering
Dominique Pozo: No, I mean, we talked about it in meetings. And I'm wondering if you want to I can talk to the doctors, but if you want to jump in on Don's meeting.
Dominique Pozo: Dr. A brielle who I work with on Wednesdays at 130 she would be a really good one to get to talk to about tapering because she really in the past has encouraged people to taper.
Martin Price: Yeah I know Dr candela's much more easy going about it, you know.
Dominique Pozo: She is so I think she'd be great resource. And I think Don might help kind of stimulate it a little more
Martin Price: As she she's kind of a whip cracker.
Dominique Pozo: She can be she can. She's definitely mellowed out because a lot of people weren't enjoying that. And it wasn't actually supporting their process. It was feeling very stressful for them.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Martin Price: I remember with Jody, and all that.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, so I think
Dominique Pozo: She's shifted a bit, and she she has a lot of information around it, too. So you know if that's something you want to do. I, I'll say it's okay, I can check in with her. But if you wanted to come
Dominique Pozo: To a meeting and you know it's a good conversation for the whole group to have. So I would definitely if you come, bring it up and say, Hey, here's where I'm at, with the tapering I'm having
Dominique Pozo: You know my fears my concerns my doubts. Can you, can we talk about it, and it'd be great to, you know, dialogue with the group because there might actually be someone in the group. Who's, who's tapered more than you have. And they can talk to you about it.
Martin Price: Okay, or I can bring it up tomorrow night to writer.
Dominique Pozo: For sure. Yeah.
Martin Price: The taboo subject.
Dominique Pozo: No, it's actually really important one, and it's encouraged and I don't think that the patients, talk about it enough, you know, and speak to the fears and concerns and then
Dominique Pozo: The other group members. I'm sure will probably say I have the same ones and maybe some will have some insight, something to share.
Martin Price: Like I said, I knew that or an internet talks about it and
Martin Price: Like I said there was that one girl that she was taking like a half every other day or something. It was pretty amazing.
Martin Price: Program along, long time.
Dominique Pozo: Maybe, maybe, I don't know.
Martin Price: That was, you know, that's kind of inspirational for me to see that.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. And one thing I'll just share that I've witnessed is that's taken years you know it's been it's been a process. And I think she's doing so well because she didn't rush it. She didn't try to just, like, you know, get it over with. And
Dominique Pozo: Because I think, you know, correct me if I'm wrong, and if this doesn't resonate just throw it out really take it with a grain of salt. Although what I am perceiving is that
Dominique Pozo: I'm wondering if you know your desire to just, you know, go to a treatment facility help have them help you taper and get down quick and then be done. It's actually, I think it's skipping over
Dominique Pozo: You know, a lot of the things that if another crisis or challenge comes up in life you know
Dominique Pozo: Hopefully you're, you're going to be building skills on how to deal with it over time and not just like
Dominique Pozo: Try to wrap it up really quick and then get through it. It's like, well, actually this is a process and it takes time and it takes a lot of, you know, moving through difficult things and unwinding and
Dominique Pozo: Does that do you
Martin Price: Like yeah, I'm very
Martin Price: Like results oriented or whatever.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, that's the sense of
Things.
Martin Price: Yeah, last time I did it.
Martin Price: It wasn't enduring, you know, and I went to na meetings and stuff like that. I and I worked on my steps, but
Martin Price: I just remember feeling so lousy and sick that uh
Martin Price: I finally
Martin Price: Took some cough syrup. But coding in it you know because I've
Martin Price: gone to the doctor and
Martin Price: Then it just kind of start it all up. Again, you know,
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I think that that's my
Dominique Pozo: It's not a huge concern, but something I'm aware of is that the seems like it's a fractal of, you know, a pattern in your life.
Martin Price: That is
Dominique Pozo: You know, and if you can really address this this particular story and the pattern that it would, it may serve you moving forward to not, you know, to not keep a certain pattern of that.
Dominique Pozo: That, in a sense, like it's almost like it binds you to a certain way of being, or you're, you're like captive to the pattern.
Yeah.
Martin Price: I know exactly what you mean. It's kind of like tour of the band aid and
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And I mean I'm just gonna reflect back like you've done really good honest work the time that we've been working together. And I've seen improvements and shifts, you know, and I
Dominique Pozo: I think maybe it's harder for you because you're just in it and you're you're going through it every day. But I've noticed some shifts so i i think that
Dominique Pozo: If anything, I see it as an opportunity like wow it's it's not going to happen in one week but I I believe in you to break the pattern and and i'm i really hope that it will just serve you moving forward.
Martin Price: Yeah, and not just, I don't know how I could fit in.
Martin Price: Like, first of all, the treatment centers so constantly and the other part of it is that
Martin Price: You know, I've been around me a lot. And so
Martin Price: It's just, I've heard lessons I've heard it a lot, you know, I'm not being condescending. I'm just saying that it's like saying I
Martin Price: You know, I've been through the steps and had been
Martin Price: To probably 1000 meetings and
Martin Price: Their answer would be, well just quit using and keep coming back, you know,
Martin Price: It's really just didn't quite work for me last time. I don't know if like
Martin Price: I know part of it last time was
Martin Price: Trying to live with my daughter and deal with her. That was like one of the most difficult things I've ever done.
Martin Price: It was like
Is
Martin Price: You know, at least for a year.
Martin Price: Yeah.
Martin Price: Okay, well, I'll try not to get so
Martin Price: Anxious and, you know, wanting to make it all happen. Now, you know,
Martin Price: Even though I'd like to
Dominique Pozo: I just had this thought to
Dominique Pozo: What what
Dominique Pozo: When you were young, like a little like a child. And maybe you would have a tantrum about things, who was there.
Dominique Pozo: Was any. Was there any adult there to help kind of soothe you and calm you down.
Martin Price: Yeah, I just didn't work that way in our household. It just wasn't like that.
Martin Price: It was be like I throw a tantrum and my brother like
Martin Price: You know, call me a baby and tell me to shut up or whatever.
Martin Price: And it was because my dad was so rough on him. You know, so he took it out on me.
Martin Price: And there's just, you know, I'd forgotten about all that for a long time. But then when you get into kind of low periods in your life where things are difficult than
Martin Price: That's like me.
Martin Price: And you really meet yourself.
Dominique Pozo: Well,
Martin Price: It could be awesome for all the stuff I've been ignoring or something.
Dominique Pozo: Totally, yeah, it's, it's, it's, you can't deny it.
Martin Price: Just have a good job and a lot of money saved and and a wife and you know i'll be happy.
Martin Price: I've got a good job that's
Dominique Pozo: Yeah yeah you got, you know, one of those is boxes is checked at the moment.
Dominique Pozo: I think that's why I'm really encouraging you to turn towards the discomfort, rather than away from it because it's not going to go away if you don't tend to it and i mean you know that
Martin Price: I just don't know what to do.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I think you're exploring it. I think you're in a process of exploration and learning how to move with it and it's not totally clear yet and
Dominique Pozo: That's what I see and
Dominique Pozo: You know, throw it out. If it doesn't, again, if it doesn't like land for you yet. I just as you are.
Dominique Pozo: Well, also, when you said like I just want it now and I just want it to happen. I just went now i i really i like saw a young little young boy. And I think nobody
Dominique Pozo: I'm wondering if anybody modeled for you or gave you the the experience the felt sense of, hey, this is how we calm ourselves down when we get anxious
Dominique Pozo: When things aren't going our way when we want something that's not happening. This is the way to calm yourself down. It's going to whatever you know
Dominique Pozo: And maybe you didn't. You didn't get the modeling because your dad. It sounds like from what I hear you know he was a ranger and he would just, you know, erupt and have his, his adult tantrum, which didn't really give you a good example of how to how to self regulate
Martin Price: Was always like, I would just try and be the opposite, which is like
Martin Price: You know bottling things up inside, you know,
Dominique Pozo: And have no needs.
Dominique Pozo: Or at least pretend like you don't have any needs.
Martin Price: Yeah. Exactly. That's exactly what I do.
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And that's just not human. We all have needs.
Martin Price: Right, but I'm afraid to express them. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Well, you're I think you're doing great in our sessions i mean i i really i i hear your honesty and your genuine and you know not afraid to say what's really going on for you. I hear that
Dominique Pozo: I think a lot. I'm just going to put this out as another possibility of something to work on this week is to
Dominique Pozo: If you're starting to feel anxious really think back to that little boy. And just imagine it's the little boy that's anxious and if you are going to talk to the little boy. What would you say to suit him or calmed him down.
Martin Price: Like it's all gonna work out.
Martin Price: Don't worry, and
Dominique Pozo: And and what do you need. Should we go for a walk. What would, what would help you to take a deep breath right now, you know,
Martin Price: Yeah, my go to is always been exercise, you know,
Martin Price: That's like one of my big coping things for anxiety.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, and that's, I think it's, it can be healthy, unless it gets out of balance and it's it kind of starts to deny what's actually happening because you're checking out, you know,
Martin Price: Yeah yeah
Martin Price: That's been my pattern.
Dominique Pozo: Well, this is great, you know, it's really shining a light on the pattern.
Martin Price: Yeah, my second wife, she was very much about like no conflict, no anger. She didn't
Martin Price: She didn't like conflict or anger at all. You know, she wanted everything to be smooth and light and
Martin Price: You know, towards the end, like the therapists are telling me how
Martin Price: You have to be able to
Martin Price: express your problems with her behavior, you know, to, it's like, and it was weird because when I did when I did that she just got really upset.
Martin Price: You know, it was like
Martin Price: So I was always the one to apologize.
Martin Price: Just a big apologiser
Martin Price: So I have been learning. Yeah, over the last few years, like you're not always wrong and
Martin Price: And to be real. This is like the whole
Martin Price: You know, like I've been trying to rent a house in Janesville, and these scammers are just popping up all over the place with
Martin Price: They find homes for sale. And then they get on Craigslist and say that they're the owner and they try and run them.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Martin Price: Yeah, they get you to send them like 1300 dollars as the rat in the damage deposit and and they weren't even, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, yeah, this
Martin Price: One guy. He's like, I'm Stephen Kramer and it sounded like he was literally
Martin Price: Just off the boat from Honduras or something. I mean his
Martin Price: He could barely speak English, you know,
Martin Price: He's trying to convince me that he Stephen Kramer
Martin Price: Crazy.
Martin Price: They're out there you know
Martin Price: Yeah. So yeah, I'm learning, especially in that last relationship with Michelle. It's just like I have to learn to
Martin Price: Not be so generous and trusting and just, you know, take care of myself, focus on taking care of myself.
Dominique Pozo: I think a big thing to to just keep remembering to is that your needs matter. You know, I think that's a really powerful statement for all of us. I mean, this is not just personal to you know, Marty. This is across the board, you know,
Dominique Pozo: To just keep remembering and believing that our needs met your needs matter.
Martin Price: Yeah, because, like, you know, I see my tendency with April to just be like,
Martin Price: You know you're having a hard time, you know, it sounds like you're doing the best you can and you know I'm always in this kind of consoling mode and
Martin Price: Is a very problems with their son and everything.
Martin Price: That's just kind of my natural inclination, I guess.
Dominique Pozo: Well, let's take a moment. We've got a few more minutes left in the session. Let's just take a moment if you're willing to close your eyes and just have some self connection.
Dominique Pozo: And
Dominique Pozo: Just connect to your breath for a moment that breath moving
Dominique Pozo: Through your body
Dominique Pozo: And feeling your, your, the root of your pelvis on connected to that chair.
Dominique Pozo: Feeling the ground beneath you holding you supporting you and as you exhale, just you know how much more deeply. Can you relax.
Dominique Pozo: Towards the ground.
Dominique Pozo: Just without any judgment on it, just take a moment to, you know, what are you, what are you feeling right now. What's most present. If you check into your status.
Dominique Pozo: Know you did a lot of work today really like just processing, you know, looking at things. And if you feel like going to bed. I'm gonna encourage you to take a nap and let your psyche process. You know what we've talked about because you did a lot today.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I'm gonna pull up my calendar. Do you want to look together what might be a good
Martin Price: Thursday evening. I know. I think we've got something scheduled for a week from today that
Martin Price: I was going to suggest this Thursday evening.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, you want. Okay, that's fine. So let's see.
Dominique Pozo: Can you do 730
Martin Price: Is that too late. Mountain time
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, mountain time. Is that too late for you.
Dominique Pozo: Are you sure
Martin Price: Well, I mean, I'd rather do it earlier, but it's 1030 so what you got. That's okay.
Dominique Pozo: It might work. How about let's say for now 730 and if I can do earlier, I will definitely know by Wednesday.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. And, and we can do we can do six o'clock. If that works better. Yeah.
Martin Price: This is nice. I think it really helps me
Dominique Pozo: Great.
Dominique Pozo: I'm so glad. So I'm gonna put you down for 730 for now. And if we can do if we can do later than I mean, excuse me earlier than we will
Martin Price: Have a meeting. Pretty much every night of the week.
Martin Price: You know, so good. Great. Okay, we're good for me.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I think right now, at least, just to get you through the you know this this
Dominique Pozo: tenuous part of the tapering, you know. Yeah. Okay. Okay. All right, Mike.
Dominique Pozo: See you in group tomorrow.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. Okay. Bye bye.
Dominique Pozo: So next schedule next session for Martin price will be Thursday at 7:30pm Mountain Standard Time. Thank you. And I think that you plug it in two poles. If you don't, I can
Okay, thanks.